
== skip lib check ==

Commonly, a program includes many dependencies, which may include large declaration files, which usually are checked by their authors already. But, *the compiler* spends a lot of time *checking* these declarations again anyway, so, large programs may take a lot of time to compile. So, the idea behind this option is to *shorten* the compile time by avoiding type checks of these declarations. 

--skipLibCheck forces the compiler to skip type checking all declaration files.

Enabling the `skipLibCheck` option instructs the compiler to skip type checking of all declaration (*.d.ts) files. This includes the *.d.ts files from the node_modules directory and your custom *.d.ts files


== tsconfig.json ==

"Understanding Typescript's Compilation Process"
https://medium.com/jspoint/typescript-compilation-the-typescript-compiler-4cb15f7244bc

**tsc** (Typescript compiler) needs a JSON configuration file.
When you run the `tsc` command in a directory, Typescript compiler looks for the
`tsconfig.json` file in the current directory and if it doesn't find one, then
it *keeps looking up* the directory tree until it find one. 
The directory where the `tsconfig.json` is located is considered the root of
the project.

The `--project` flag can provide the path to the `tsconfig.json` file.
If you want, you can use a different for this file when using this flag.

Example:
`tsc --project ./config/tsconfig.cjs.json`

=== structure of `tsconfig.json` ===

- Supports *JSON5* specifications, you can use comments, single quotes.
- Contains root-level options and compilerOptions.

*Root-level options*

- Control how the project is presented to the Typescript compiler.
- Files to compile, excluded files, 

==== Files ====
- Preffer relative paths.
- Paths are preserved after compilation.
`./src/services/http.ts` -> `./src/services/http.js`
The `.js` file will be generated where the input file was in the directory structure.
If you provide a `outDir` path, it will follow the same directory structure, but
starting from the provided `ourDir` path.

==== Include and Exclude ====
- Supports glob patterns to locate input files and to exclude some of them.
- Exlude only works with files that were added by include.

`
// tsconfig.json
{
    "include": [
        "a.ts",
        "src/*.ts"
    ],
    "exclude": [
        "src/ignore.ts"
    ]
}
`
- `node_modules` folder is automatically excluded.
- imports of files that are not included in the compilation target will be 
included as well. If a included files is importing some excluded file, Typescript
will included that file and ignore that it was previoulsly excluded.







